Hello there and welcome to the project. A Beginners Guide to the ChatGPT API. My name is Rudi, I'm a Full Stack Developer and a DevOps engineer, and I'm going to be your instructor today for this project. And so exactly what are we working on today? Well, during this project, we're going to construct a functioning chat bot using OpenAI's GPT-3 API. We'll configure a connection to the OpenAI API, we'll craft impact full prompts. We're going to efficiently manage the interaction between the system and the user. By using a simple python script, we're going to delve deeper into the foundational principles and have a look at the potential of application development that could be possible by using the ChatGPT API. And there are three main learning objectives that we want to overcome during this project. First one, really we want to develop a solid understanding of how to actually interact with the ChatGPT API. We want to be able to construct meaningful and efficient prompts for the ChatGPT API. And thirdly, we want to develop a practical understanding around the API's limitations and constraints. And we'll do this by dealing with error handling and debugging chatbot interactions. For this project, you'll take on the role as a software developer who's been asked to help a company, ZooCorp, solve a significant challenge that has been identified. The cost of providing around the clock customer service support, the ZooCorp has been skyrocketing, while customer satisfaction scores are dwindling due to slow response times. So really, they've asked you to come along, design and implement an AI powered tech support chat using OpenAI's GPT API to address this critical business problem. So you're going to build an interactive chatbot using the OpenAI's GPT-3 API. The chatbot should be capable of carrying out conversations, answering user queries, and providing responses based on given prompts.
Play video starting at :1:52 and follow transcript1:52
It is hoped by the end of this that this AI powered tech support chat will help to significantly reduce ZooCorp's customer service costs by providing immediate, accurate responses to customers at any time. What you're going to need, you're going to need a browser. I always recommend Chrome for this type of task. You may need a credit card for tokens. The tokens are the primary currency that you use to interact with ChatGPT's API. The cost of those for this particular project are insignificant. We're probably talking under a dollar, maybe around $0.40 or less. If you haven't used ChatGPT API before, you'll probably be able to have some free tokens that you'll be able to get access to once you actually sign up. If you no longer have access to those free tokens because you might have used the API before, then that may not be available, and you might have to actually sign up for those tokens. You'll also need to already have Python as well as Jupyter Notebooks already installed. And although we're not covering that today, I've left some instructions inside the resources section of the project shell that you can use to go ahead and get that all set up either on MAC OS or a windows OS. And the last thing you're going to need is an API key. We'll do this together in the first task. If you haven't used the platform before, then typically you'll have your video controls. But this is an interactive project, so we always encourage you to be pausing the video and practicing yourself, copying things that I'm actually doing, and also adding some creativity of your own in to actually get used to some of the processes that we'll be exploring during this project. So feel free to pause the video, rewind the video, and skip back and forth through tasks just to make sure that you're actually getting used to the concepts that we're actually covering during this project. So let's get started. In our first task here, we want to connect to the OpenAI API, and so we want to configure the API inside of a Python script. We're also going to write our first request to the chat GPT API, okay? And so in order to actually get our API set up, we're going to need an API key. So let's go ahead and get that done first. So first thing to do is actually open a browser window. Again, I recommend Chrome, and what I want you to do is to actually make a search here for ChatGPT API.
Play video starting at :4:9 and follow transcript4:09
We can click on the OpenAI link that comes up here, and the first thing we're going to do is actually to sign up if you don't have an account, and if you already do have an account, you can go ahead and just simply Log In. So once you hit the Sign Up button, you can go ahead and create your account using either OAuth here, or you can actually put your email address and actually click continue, and that'll actually help you to create an account. I'm going to go ahead and Sign In with Google here. Now, once you've actually signed into ChatGPT, you could actually be brought to this page. If you're brought to another page, what we really want to do is actually navigate towards the API section. And so this is the dashboard and from the dashboard here, we'll be able to click on this personal tab and click on view API keys. At this point, it says you do not currently have any API keys please create one below. So I can go ahead and click this to actually go ahead and create a new secret key. If we go ahead and click on usage over here, we'll be able to see if there are any free trial credits that are actually being used. You may have access to some free credits here or you may not. That's all depending on the record that GPT has on your file and whether or not they're actually offering free credits at the time. If they do not have a free trial available, you're going to have to set up a paid account. So you go ahead and click on that button there. Alternatively, you can click on the Billing button here underneath Organization, and when you click on Overview, this will bring you to the Billing overview section. And if you want to actually set up a Paid account, you can go ahead and click the button here. Set up paid accounts, you can follow the instructions here as an individual. Go ahead and enter your credit card details in here and click on Set Up Payment Method. Once you've gone ahead and added in your payment method, you'll see that you'll be on this Pay as you go account, which will be billed at the end of each calendar month for usage during that month. And at all times, you can always go into your Usage limits. You can set hard and soft limits on the actual usage so that your credit never goes over those limits, and you can always see your current usage here under Current usage. And so from here, we want to go ahead and click on API keys here, and we're going to go ahead and create a new secret key. We're going to give it a name and click on Create secret key. And we can see here that this key that's actually provided for you, you'll never be able to get it again. So if you lose this secret key, you're going to go ahead and need to create a new one. So you can go ahead and click the copy button here and store that somewhere safe where you'll have access to it again in the future. Not to worry, if you actually use it, you can come at any point and actually create a new secret key and get rid of one of the old ones if that actually happens. And the next thing you need to do, if you haven't done it already, is go ahead and get Jupyter Notebooks set up. I've left instructions for that inside the resources section of the project shell on Coursera, so go ahead and follow those instructions for whatever OS you're actually on to get Jupyter Notebooks set up. And you may need to install a fresh copy of Python if you haven't got that set up already. Once that's actually done, I want you to open up a new terminal window or a command prompt window and actually get Jupyter Notebooks started up. So once we actually open up a new terminal window here, we can go ahead and type in Jupyter Notebook and hit Enter. And once that actually boots up, you're going to go ahead and see a screen that looks like this. You may see some different files because that's going to represent your own local file system. If you've got a folder you want to navigate into to actually create this project, go ahead and do that. But I'm just going to go ahead here and I'm going to click on New, and here I'm going to click on Python three IPY kernel, and this will create a new Jupyter Notebook for us. We're ready to actually start our project now, so let's get going. The first thing we're going to need to do is to install and import the necessary Python modules that we're going to need for this project. So we're going to need the OS module, which allows us to interact with the operating system so we can store our keys safely and fetch our keys when we need them from the environment variables. And secondly, we're going to need to set up our OpenAI API key itself. This is obviously crucial for authenticating our requests to the OpenAI API. So let's go ahead and do that. Let's type in. !pip install OS. I'm going to keep it inside this cell here, and I'm going to do another pip install.
Play video starting at :8:17 and follow transcript8:17
And this is going to be OpenAI. And what we're going to be able to do here is press Escape to go into command mode, and I can type B to start a new cell beneath. I can hit Enter to go into it and next I'm going to do an import. So I'm going to say import OS and I'm also going to go ahead and import OpenAI. Again, I'm going to hit Escape, and I'm going to tap B and Enter again. And now we're actually going to set these up. So where we do that, we call on OS. We say OS.environ, we do our square brackets here, and we're going to set this as API_KEY, and that's going to be equal to a string value of your own API key.
Play video starting at :9:3 and follow transcript9:03
And of course, you're going to go ahead and paste your key into here. Once you've pasted in your API key here, let's run a line here just to actually print out the API key by doing a print. And then we're going to do an OS.get env brackets and then inside of here, we're going to call on that variable which is API_NKEY. So once you've actually done that, we're going to click on Kernel and we're going to do Restart and Run all.
Play video starting at :9:30 and follow transcript9:30
Now you should be getting this printed out here below. If you're getting this command not found pip, you may need to actually use pip 3. You may also find that the OS package is already installed in Python by default, so you may have an error coming out about that as well. Let's click on Restart and Run all cells want to keep going until we actually get this printed out below here, okay? In this case, OS is already installed. I'm going to ahead and comment this line out. And I could easily do that by using a hash here. And I'm also going to comment this line out here because I know that's already installed. So let's go ahead and click on Restart and Run all. Now we're getting a clean output here of our API key. And now once we know that's actually correct, we can go ahead and get this saved onto another variable. OpenAI.API_KEY is equal to OS.getm API key, Restart and Run all. And now that's actually going to be stored inside of there. We can go ahead and just check that's actually done here just by calling on this variable. And once we've got that printed out here correctly, we know that that key is actually set up to actually be able to start making requests against OpenAI's API. So let's go ahead and do that. So let's get rid of this line here. Let's do an escape and we're going to do a B to open up a new cell here. Inside of here, you can either click in or press Enter. We're going to go ahead and type a response variable and we're just going to type out a basic request here. So let's say OpenAI and the method we're calling is completion.create. Inside of here, we're going to have a few parameters we're going to pass through here. First one we're going to pass in is engine, we'll recover this all later. The engine we're using here is just going to be textDA Vinci-002 Two, use a comma here and let's pass in the prompt parameter. Let's just have once upon a time.
Play video starting at :11:23 and follow transcript11:23
And let's set the max tokens just to limit the amount of tokens. Just so we're limiting the cost of our test request here. We're just going to set that to a number of 50. Awesome, and underneath here, let's go ahead and print out the response itself.
Play video starting at :11:40 and follow transcript11:40
And then we're going to do response choices. We're going to take the first choice, we're going to .text, we're going to do .strip. And now again, we're going to actually go ahead and run everything again, with Restart and Run All. And we can see that it's actually working here. We get a response back after our once upon a time. It completes that for us, there was a little pet rock. The rock's owner loved it very much and every day they would spend time together playing games and spending time outdoors. However, one day the rock's owner went away and never came back. And of course, it's limited to a certain number of tokens, that's why it stops at this point. So we can now see that our API response is working correctly here. And the only other thing really is just to actually understand that the response that comes back is actually an object. We go ahead and run this cell again, we can see that we have a response object here. And we went into choices and we took the first choice of this actual array here and then we took the text. But this response object we'll delve into that inside of the next task. But for now, we got through our objectives here for the first task, we actually configured our API inside of a Python script. We wrote our first request to the GPT API. And the key takeaways, as we said, is that the API itself, accessible via generated API key, enables us developers to actually utilize more advanced text generation abilities within various applications. In the next task, we're going to delve deeper into crafting meaningful prompts and understanding the responses that comes back from the GPT API. So I look forward to seeing you there.
